Keven's artist statement

For my mid-term project, I chose to make a game based on the black knight scene from the British comedy film “Monty Python and the Holy Grail”. The style of game I chose to base my project around, was none other than the popular mobile game “Fruit Ninja”. Now, you may be asking, why did I choose to make a game on that specific scene in that movie, when it is full of other memorable moments, and why did I choose to use “Fruit Ninja” as inspiration for the gameplay of all things? Well to answer both questions at once, the idea for this project came rather naturally for me. It was a rather spontaneous idea that popped into my head when brainstorming for possible things to base my project on. Do I know specifically why I randomly thought of a game based on *that* scene with the gameplay of “Fruit Ninja”? If I’m going to be honest, no I do not. My most likely connection between the two is that during the black knight scene in “Monty Python and the Holy Grail”, the black knight gets his arms cut off but shrugs off the injury, remarking “’Tis but a flesh wound!”). The arms getting cut off so cleanly must of reminded me of the clean and satisfying slices the player can pull off in “Fruit Ninja”. So, put two and two together and you’ve got my idea for my mid-term project.

Now I will admit, the whole thing is quite random and nonsensical, but I enjoyed creating it a whole lot, and I find the final product to be quite reminiscent of “Fruit Ninja”, despite my beginner level knowledge of p5.js. It is a rather simple idea, but I’m proud of the way I executed it, even if, originality wise, it can be seen as lacking in some way, since the gameplay is based off that of an existing game, rather than something original. Though I will defend myself in saying that the whole point of this project is to learn and show off my skills, which my final product is a showcase of.

And one last thing, you’re probably wondering why the score was displayed in roman numerals, well that’s because my font didn’t have any number characters in it, so I made do with what I had and coded a function that converted the score integer into a roman numeral string.

